# Government essay 2

**Improvements in health, education, and trade are essential for the development
of poorer nations. However, the governments of richer nations should take more
responsibility for helping the poorer nations in such areas. Discuss both views,
and give your opinion. (45 words)**

It's a well-known fact that the wellbeing of state citizens depends on the
quality of education. Effective healthcare and economic prosperity also come
into mind when speaking about thriving and rich countries. Obviously, this
becomes a demand from citizens of developing countries to their government. Yet,
in reality, it's hard to achieve only with the financial aid provided by more
affluent countries.

A good example is Ukraine, that is among the poorest countries in Europe. It
suffers from a high level of corruption, worn infrastructure, lack of trust to
politicians, and many other factors. There are cases when Ukraine got credit
from the IMF, China, and other sources for its own needs and part of the money
was stolen. It was accompanied by failures of investigation and led to worsened
reputation. Therefore giving money is not enough to turn a poor or semi-failed
state into a prosperous country. Creditors must demand changes by implementing
reforms to build a trustworthy judicial system, government institutions, and
stable economy.

In the case of Ukraine, it's done by signing an agreement with the European
Union for integration and prospective join to the EU. Ukraine made commitments
to adopt its laws in accordance with the European legislation and comply with
demands stated in the agreement. All these requirements are set to make Ukraine
more economically stable, provide changes in stagnant educational and healthcare
systems, and overcome overall corruption in all levels of public authorities.
International institutions like IMF or EU representatives have stated positive
changes in Ukraine and reforms made for the last five years are considered as
the deepest and influential ones since Ukraine independency.

Positive changes that happened during the last years in Ukraine are also a
result of the government's priorities and hard work. So positive shifts in
education, health or people prosperity are impossible without the  political
will of PMs and president. The role of rich countries, acting as supervisors,
also should not be belittled. In conclusion, my opinion that actions must be
made from both parties to achieve a stated goal.
