# TOEFL essay

**Reducing global environmental damage should be handled by governments rather
than individuals. Do you agree or disagree? Give reasons for your answer and
provide relevant examples from your own experience. (35 words)**

Environmental dangers induced by humans activity is a common problem for all
governments and humans without regard to residence. Everyone suffers from global
warming, massive air pollution and lots of garbage produced by humans. One can
change living habits, become more eco-friendly and take care of nature, but
it makes no sense if the government doesn't pursue a policy for protecting the
environment. Therefore I believe that the official position of governs is much
more important than individuals' actions.

One of the tremendous threats is an accumulating amount of garbage all around
the globe. There is a lot of plastic, and other harmful materials that are not
compostable humannity has no ideas on how to deal with. Rich countries send junk
to the poor ones, mainly located in Asia, for recycling or utilization but,
actually, it just thrown away in those countries. This year I have started
sorting waste for further recycling or environmentally safe disposal. Such
activity is quite hard in Ukraine since the government doesn't care about
recycling and existing laws have no power in reality. Eco activists do all for
donations from concerned citizens. Their efforts will be much fruitful if the
government supports them by providing efficient laws that meet the challenges of
our time.

Global warming must be mentioned as the tremendous danger of nowadays. One can
see the effects of this event as a higher average monthly temperature or
spread of diseases beyond areas where they traditionally occur. The last impact
is the occurrence of viruses or illnesses typical for tropics in areas where
they have not ever encountered. It's a massive problem as people don't have
immunity to these diseases. As for me, I see results of global warming when
months usually followed by rains, winds, and low temperatures turn out to be
warmer than previously. It's a bad sign denoting that people must act to prevent
hardening this problem. And the governement has more power and influence for
responding to this challenge than individuals.

People caused threats to the environment regardless of living place and it
affects every person on the planet. But individuals' efforts will not be sufficient
until actions become coordinated with clear goals. Providing laws to unite
people and focus their efforts is a direct responsibility of government, and
they should be in the front line of saving the environment.
